{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 List of Information Technology (IT) Job Titles\par
Share\par
Pin\par
Share\par
Email\par
Software developers doing some research.\par
\f1\bullet\bullet\bullet\par
BY ALISON DOYLE  Updated March 18, 2019\par
If you love technology and you\rquote re looking for a job with high pay and a solid occupational outlook, you\rquote re in luck: the tech sector is booming and IT occupations are expected to continue growing over the next decade. These jobs also pay far more than the median wage for all occupations.\par
\par
\par
People with jobs in information technology (IT) use computers, software, networks, servers, and other technology to manage and store data. Information technology job titles can vary greatly from one company to another. For instance, one company may recruit for a "developer" where another company recruits for a "programmer" \emdash  but the work may be precisely the same at the two companies, despite the difference in job titles. Also, many of the skills in this field are transferable, which means candidates may be qualified for many different roles.\par
\par
\par
If you are searching for positions in IT, it's helpful to take a look at a broad list of job titles so that your search can include all of the relevant roles. Browse through this list of information technology job titles to see which ones are applicable for your job search.\par
\par
\par
You might also use this list to encourage your employer to change the title of your position to better fit your responsibilities.\par
\par
Information on the Field of Information Technology\par
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), jobs in IT are growing well above average rates of all other occupations, with 13 percent growth expected from 2016 to 2026.\par
\par
This growth is no big surprise, as technology continues to flourish with new websites, applications, and products launching constantly. The BLS predicts that the IT industry will add 557,100 new jobs by 2026. These occupations are high-paying: the median annual salary for IT jobs was $84,580 in May 2017, more than twice the median wage for all jobs.\par
\par
The "Internet of Things," or web-connected products, has been a major development in the information technology industry the same way mobile apps were a few years ago.\par
\par
Now, it is common for baby monitors to be viewable through a personal online stream. It\rquote s also common to be able to set home alarms, start the coffee brewing, or turn the heat on and off remotely, by using web-based apps.\par
\par
The other important development in the IT field is the advent of cloud computing. There is currently high demand for cloud architects, cloud software and network engineers, cloud services developers, cloud system administrators and engineers, cloud consultants, and more.\par
\par
\par
Top Information Technology (IT) Job Titles\par
Below is a list of some of the most common job titles from the IT industry, as well as a description of each. For more information about each job title, check out the Bureau of Labor Statistics\rquote  Occupational Outlook Handbook.\par
\par
\par
Cloud Computing Engineers\par
Computer computing engineers define, design, build, and maintain systems and solutions leveraging systems and infrastructure managed by cloud providers such as Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Microsoft Azure.\par
\par
\par
Cloud Architect\par
Cloud Consultant\par
Cloud Product and Project Manager\par
Cloud Services Developer\par
Cloud Software and Network Engineer\par
Cloud System Administrator\par
Cloud System Engineer\par
\par
Computer Network Specialists\par
Computer network specialists and analysts define, design, build, and maintain a variety of data communication networks and systems. They typically have a bachelor\rquote s degree in computer science or a related field. Some also have a master\rquote s degree in business administration (MBA), with a focus in information systems. Computer network architects can earn relatively high salaries \endash  the median salary is $104,650.\par
\par
Computer and Information Research Scientist\par
Computer and Information Systems Manager\par
Computer Network Architect\par
Computer Systems Analyst\par
Computer Systems Manager\par
IT Analyst\par
IT Coordinator\par
Network Administrator\par
Network Architect\par
Network and Computer Systems Administrator\par
Network Engineer\par
Network Systems Administrator\par
Senior Network Architect\par
Senior Network Engineer\par
Senior Network System Administrator\par
Telecommunications Specialist\par
Computer Support Specialist\par
Computer support specialists and network administrators help computer users and organizations. Some of these workers support computer networks by testing and evaluating network systems and ensuring that the day-to-day operations work. Others provide customer service by helping people with their computer problems. Some require a bachelor\rquote s degree, while others need an associate degree or post-secondary classes.\par
\par
Customer Support Administrator\par
Customer Support Specialist\par
Desktop Support Manager\par
Desktop Support Specialist\par
Help Desk Specialist\par
Help Desk Technician\par
IT Support Manager\par
IT Support Specialist\par
IT Systems Administrator\par
Senior Support Specialist\par
Senior System Administrator\par
Support Specialist\par
Systems Administrator\par
Technical Specialist\par
Technical Support Engineer\par
Technical Support Specialist\par
Database Administrator\par
Database administrators help store and organize data or companies and/or customers. They protect the data from unauthorized users. Some work for companies that provide computer design services. Others work for organizations with large database systems, such as educational institutions, financial firms, and more. These jobs are growing at a faster-than-average rate, with an expected 11 percent growth in jobs between 2016-2026.\par
\par
Data Center Support Specialist\par
Data Quality Manager\par
Database Administrator\par
Senior Database Administrator\par
Information Technology Analysts\par
IT analysts are responsible for designing and implementing organizational technology for businesses. They create solutions for collecting and analyzing market data, customer input and client information.\par
\par
Application Support Analyst\par
Senior System Analyst\par
Systems Analyst\par
Systems Designer\par
Information Technology Leadership\par
Leadership in IT draws from candidates with strong technology backgrounds and superior management skills. They have experience in creating and implementing policies and systems to meet IT objectives, and the ability to budget the time and funds necessary.\par
\par
Chief Information Officer (CIO)\par
Chief Technology Officer (CTO)\par
Director of Technology\par
IT Director\par
IT Manager\par
Management Information Systems Director\par
Technical Operations Officer\par
Information Security Specialist\par
The increased incidence of security breaches and the associated danger of identity theft has enhanced the importance of protecting data on commercial and governmental sites. Information security analysts help defend an organization\rquote s computer network and computer systems. They plan and carry out a variety of security measures, such as installing and using software, and simulating cyber-attacks to test systems. Information security jobs are expected to grow much faster than average, with an increase of 28 percent between 2016 and 2026.\par
\par
Information Security\par
Security Specialist\par
Senior Security Specialist\par
Software/Application Developer\par
Software developers design, run, and test various computer programs and applications. Application Developers create new applications and code solutions. They usually have a bachelor\rquote s degree in computer science or a related field. They also have strong programming skills. Software developer jobs are expected to grow by about 24 percent from 2016-2026. The average salary of a software developer is $103,560.\par
\par
Application Developer\par
Applications Engineer\par
Associate Developer\par
Computer Programmer\par
Developer\par
Java Developer\par
Junior Software Engineer\par
.NET Developer\par
Programmer\par
Programmer Analyst\par
Senior Applications Engineer\par
Senior Programmer\par
Senior Programmer Analyst\par
Senior Software Engineer\par
Senior System Architect\par
Senior System Designer\par
Senior Systems Software Engineer\par
Software Architect\par
Software Developer\par
Software Engineer\par
Software Quality Assurance Analyst\par
System Architect\par
Systems Software Engineer\par
Web Developer\par
Web developers design, create, and modify websites. They are responsible for maintaining a user friendly, stable website that offers the necessary functionality for their client\rquote s needs. Some jobs require a bachelor\rquote s degree, while others need an associate degree including classes in HTML, JavaScript, or SQL.\par
\par
Front End Developer\par
Senior Web Administrator\par
Senior Web Developer\par
Web Administrator\par
Web Developer\par
Webmaster\f0\par
}
 